            Menu
                      Movies
                            Release Calendar
                            Top 250 Movies
                            Most Popular Movies
                            Browse Movies by Genre
                            Top Box Office
                            Showtimes & Tickets
                            Movie News
                            India Movie Spotlight
                        TV Shows
                              What's on TV & Streaming
                              Top 250 TV Shows
                              Most Popular TV Shows
                              Browse TV Shows by Genre
                              TV News
                        Watch
                              What to Watch
                              Latest Trailers
                              IMDb Originals
                              IMDb Picks
                              IMDb Spotlight
                              IMDb Podcasts
                      Awards & Events
                            Oscars
                            SXSW Film Festival
                            Women's History Month
                            STARmeter Awards
                            Awards Central
                            Festival Central
                            All Events
                      Celebs
                            Born Today
                            Most Popular Celebs
                            Celebrity News
                      Community
                            Help Center
                            Contributor Zone
                            Polls
                      For Industry Professionals
                        Language
                        English (United States)
                  Fully supported
                  Partially supported
                  Français (Canada)
                  Français (France)
                  Deutsch (Deutschland)
                  हिंदी (भारत)
                  Italiano (Italia)
                  Português (Brasil)
                  Español (España)
                  Español (México)
                    All
            Watchlist
            Sign In
              EN
          Use app
                    Begin INLINE20
                    End INLINE20
                            [Biography](/name/nm0945981/bio/?ref_=nm_ov_ql_1)
                            [Awards](/name/nm0945981/awards/?ref_=nm_ov_ql_2)
                            [Trivia](/name/nm0945981/trivia/?ref_=nm_ov_ql_3)
                          [IMDbPro](https://pro.imdb.com/name/nm0945981/?rf=cons_nm_ov_hdr&ref_=cons_nm_ov_hdr)
                          All topics
                        Edward Yang
                        (1947-2007)
                        Writer
                        Director
                        Actor
                            Starmeter
                            See rank
                                Born on November 6, 1947 in Shanghai, China, Edward Yang has become one
of the most talented international filmmakers of his generation. Along
with Hou Hsiao-Hsien and Tsai Ming-Liang, Yang ranks among the leading
artists of the Taiwanese New Wave, and one of the world's most
brilliant auteurs. Growing up in Taipei, Taiwan, he was very interested
in Japanese Manga/Comic Books, which led to the writing of his own
screenplays. After studying engineering in Taiwan, he enrolled in the
Electrical Engineering program at The University of Florida, receiving
his Masters degree in 1974 while doing work with The Center for
Informatics Research. Yang did not pursue a PhD and instead attended
USC Film School briefly, but dropped out after feeling disenchanted by
the program's commerce-and-business focus and his own misgivings of
pursuing a Film Career. Upon working in Seattle with microcomputers and
Defense software, an encounter with a piece by Werner Herzog (Aguirre,
Wrath of God) gave him inspiration to observe classics in world cinema
and reignited his interest in Film. He eventually wrote the script and
served as a production aide on the Hong Kong TV movie, The Winter of
1905 (1981). Although he returned to Taiwan to direct a number of
television shows, his break came in 1982 with the direction and writing
of the film short, Desires (1982), in the seminal Taiwanese New Wave
collaboration In Our Time(1982). While Hou Hsiao-Hsien's movies dealt
primarily with history or Taiwan's countryside, Yang created films
analyzing and revealing the many themes of city and urban life. His
first major piece was That Day On The Beach (1983), a modernist
narrative reflecting on couples and family. He followed with the urban
films Taipei Story (1984), a reflection on urban-Taiwan through a
couple - where he cast fellow auteur Hou Hsiao Hsien as the lead - and
The Terrorizer (1986), a complex multi-narrative tale. In Yang's
brilliant A Brighter Summer Day (1991), a sprawling examination of teen
gangs, societal clashes, the influence of American pop-culture and
youth, his first authentic masterpiece was crafted. He has followed
with the satires A Confucian Confusion (1995), and Mahjong (1996),
films that looked at the struggle between the modern and the
traditional, the relationship between business and art, and how
capitalistic greed may corrupt, influence, or effect art. It is,
however, his most recent film, Yi Yi (2000), that is considered his
magnum opus, an epic story about the Jian family seen through their
different perspectives. The three-hour masterwork begins with a
wedding, ends with a funeral, and examines all areas of human life in a
variety of interesting, artistic ways. He has also collaborated with
fellow auteur, novelist, and screenwriter Nien-Jen Wu on the piece,
casting him as one of the leads, NJ. Yang's filmmaking style looks at
the uncertain future of modernizing Taiwan in an enlightening manner,
and his vision is one of the most original operating in world cinema
today.
                              Born
                              November 6, 1947
                              Died
                              June 29, 2007
                                (59)
                              Add to list
                      Begin PROVIDER_PROMOTION
                      End PROVIDER_PROMOTION
                                27 wins & 24 nominations total
                      Begin INLINE40
                      End INLINE40
                      Begin INLINE50
                      End INLINE50
                          Known for
                                [Yi Yi](/title/tt0244316/?ref_=nm_knf_t_1)
                                    8.1
                                Movie
                                    2000
                                [A Brighter Summer Day](/title/tt0101985/?ref_=nm_knf_t_2)
                                    8.2
                                    1991
                                [The Terrorizers](/title/tt0091355/?ref_=nm_knf_t_3)
                                    7.7
                                    1986
                                [Mahjong](/title/tt0116962/?ref_=nm_knf_t_4)
                                    7.4
                                    1996
                              Credits
                              Edit
                              13
                              12
                              4
                              Composer
                                2
                              Additional Crew
                              Producer
                                1
                              Production Designer
                              Sound Department
                              Self
                                5
                              Archive Footage
                        Expand below
                        All credits
                                    Previous
                                        [The Wind](/title/tt12735230/?ref_=nm_flmg_job_1_cdt_t_1)
                                                7.2
                                          Short
                                            2007
                                            written by
                                        [A Confucian Confusion](/title/tt0109685/?ref_=nm_flmg_job_1_cdt_t_4)
                                                7.5
                                            1994
                                        [Growth Period](/title/tt29613113/?ref_=nm_flmg_job_1_cdt_t_5)
                                          Video
                                            1993
                                        [Likely Consequence](/title/tt5873604/?ref_=nm_flmg_job_1_cdt_t_6)
                                                6.7
                                            1992
                                            dialogue
                                            script
                                        [Taipei Story](/title/tt0089866/?ref_=nm_flmg_job_1_cdt_t_9)
                                                7.6
                                            1985
                                        [That Day, on the Beach](/title/tt0085635/?ref_=nm_flmg_job_1_cdt_t_10)
                                            writer
                                            1983
                                        [The Winter of 1905](/title/tt2592058/?ref_=nm_flmg_job_1_cdt_t_11)
                                                4.8
                                            1982
                                        [In Our Time](/title/tt0085626/?ref_=nm_flmg_job_1_cdt_t_12)
                                                6.9
                                        [Duckweed](/title/tt14846048/?ref_=nm_flmg_job_1_cdt_t_13)
                                          TV Movie
                                            adaptation
                                            1981
                                            Pianist
                                            (uncredited)
                                        [First Love Unlimited](/title/tt0184341/?ref_=nm_flmg_job_3_cdt_t_2)
                                                6.6
                                            Tap's Stepfather
                                            1997
                                        [A Summer at Grandpa's](/title/tt0087164/?ref_=nm_flmg_job_3_cdt_t_3)
                                            1984
                                            Lieutenant Tanaka
                            Personal details
                          Alternative name
                                Yang Dechang
                                [November 6](/search/name/?birth_monthday=11-6&refine=birth_monthday&ref_=nm_pdt_bth_md)
                                ,
                                [1947](/search/name/?birth_year=1947&ref_=nm_pdt_bth_yr)
                                [Shanghai, China](/search/name/?birth_place=Shanghai%40%40%40%20China&ref_=nm_pdt_bth_loc)
                                [June 29](/search/name/?death_date=2007-6-29&refine=death_monthday&ref_=nm_pdt_dth_md)
                                [Beverly Hills, California, USA](/search/name/?death_place=Beverly%20Hills%40%40%40%20California%40%40%40%20USA&ref_=nm_pdt_dth_loc)
                                (colon cancer)
                          Spouses
                                [Chin Tsai](/name/nm0157797/?ref_=nm_pdt_sp)
                                May 1985 - August 5, 1995 (divorced)
                          [Publicity listings](/name/nm0945981/publicity/?ref_=nm_pdt_pub)
                                [1 Print Biography](/name/nm0945981/publicity/?ref_=nm_pdt_pub#printBio)
                                [4 Articles](/name/nm0945981/publicity/?ref_=nm_pdt_pub#article)
                            Did you know
                                    [Michelangelo Antonioni](/name/nm0000774/?nm_dyk_trv)
                                    is one of his favorite directors.
                          Trademarks
                                Most all of his films deal with urban Taiwan
                            Related news
                          Contribute to this page
                      Suggest an edit or add missing content
                          [Learn more about contributing](https://contribute.imdb.com/czone?ref_=nm_cn_cz)
                        Edit page
                        More to explore
                  Recently viewed
                You have no recently viewed pages
            Begin INLINEBOTTOM
            End INLINEBOTTOM
            Get the IMDb app
            Sign in for more access
              Follow IMDb on social
                For Android and iOS
                [Help](https://help.imdb.com/imdb)
                [Site Index](https://help.imdb.com/article/imdb/general-information/imdb-site-index/GNCX7BHNSPBTFALQ#so)
                [Box Office Mojo](https://www.boxofficemojo.com)
                [License IMDb Data](https://developer.imdb.com/)
                [Press Room](https://www.imdb.com/pressroom/?ref_=ft_pr)
                [Advertising](https://advertising.amazon.com/resources/ad-specs/imdb/)
                [Jobs](https://www.amazon.jobs/en/teams/imdb)
                [Conditions of Use](/conditions/?ref_=ft_cou)
                [Privacy Policy](/privacy/?ref_=ft_pvc)
                  [Your Ads Privacy Choices](/privacy/redirect/?ref_=ft_redir)
            IMDb, an Amazon company
        © 1990-
      Back to top